
Docs
Instagram Platform
Create an App
Instagram Platform
Overview
Webhooks
Create an App
Instagram API with Instagram Login
Instagram API with Facebook Login
Publish Content
Comment Moderation
Private Replies
Insights
Sharing to Feed
Sharing to Stories
oEmbed
Embed Button
API Reference
App Review
Support
Changelog
The following content is from the Meta App Development documentation. Please refer to the Development documentation to learn more about the Meta App Development process.

Create a Meta App for Instagram Platform
This guide shows you how to create and customize a Meta app for your Instagram app in the App Dashboard.

Before you Start
This guide assumes that you have read and implemented the requirements for creating an app with Meta.

Add to an existing app
If you are adding Instagram to an existing app, please start with Step 6.

1. Start the app creation process
There are a number of ways to create an app.

If you just came from the registration flow, click the Create First App button
If you are on the App Dashboard, click Create App in the upper right
If you are on the dashboard for an existing app and want to create a new app, select the dropdown menu in the upper left, and click the Create New App button
Launch the Meta App Dashboard
Step 2: Connect a business
You're required to connect your app to a business that has completed Business Verification before you can publish your app. However, you can connect a business now or at any time during the development process by clicking App settings > Basic in the left-side menu.

Select an option and click Next.
Learn more about Business Verification. 

Step 3: Select your use case
To create an app that can access the Instagram product follow these steps:

Select the Other use case.
Click the Next.
Step 4: Select your app type
Your app must be a business type app to be able to add the Instagram product.

Select Business.
Click Next.
Step 5: Add app details
Add some details about your app.

Add an app name that will appear in the app dashboard.
Add contact email that Meta will use to contact you about your app.
Click Next.
You will be redirected to the app dashboard for your new app with products you can add to your app.

Step 6. Add the Instagram product to your app
Add the Instagram product to your app by following these steps:

Scroll until you see the Instagram product. This allows Allow creators and businesses to manage messages and comments, publish content, track insights, hashtags and mentions.

Click Set up.

API setup with Instagram login is automatically added to your app. This allows your app users to log in to your app using their Instagram credentials. This setup allows you to build an app that can publish to Instagram, manage comments on Instagram media, and send and receive messages from people interested in your app user's Instagram social media using the Instagram API.

If you are building an app for a business that uses an Instagram Professional account that is linked to a Facebook Page select the API setup with Facebook login. This setup allows you to build an app that can publish content to Instagram and manage comments on Instagram media, for product tagging, Partnership Ads, and get metrics. Continue to the API Setup with Facebook Login Developer Documentation to complete the set up.

Step 7. Generate access tokens
Assign an Instagram account to get access tokens for testing Instagram API calls and webhooks subscriptions.

Add an Instagram account. This account must be public. Multiple accounts can be added for multiple testers.
You will be prompted to login to your Instagram account.
You can add or remove accounts at any time by clicking App Roles > Roles or Instagram > API Setup with Instagram login in the left-side menu.

Step 8. Configure webhooks
Meta Webhooks allow you to receive real-time HTTP notifications of changes to specific objects in the Meta social graph. To use webhooks, please provide a callback URL for your app.

Click Configure.
Add your Callback URL.
Add your Verify token.
Click Save.
Click Manage to unsubscribe or change testing and subscription versions.
By default you are subscribed to all available webhooks for the Instagram product:

comments
live_comments
message_reactions
messages
messaging_optins
messaging_postbacks
messaging_referral
messaging_seen
Learn more about webhooks. 

Step 9. Set up Instagram business login
Provide a secure way for your app users to give your app permissions to access data with business login.

Click Set up in the 3. Set up Instagram business login section
Add your Redirect URL in the popup and click Save
Copy and paste the Embed URL in an anchor tag or button on your app or website to launch business login.
Click Business login settings
Add additional OAuth Redirect URIs, if applicable
Add your Deauthorize callback URL
Add your Data deletion request URL
Click Save
Learn more about business login. 

Step 10. Complete App Review
Instagram requires successful completion of the App Review process before your app can access live data. Submit your App Review request when you're ready.

If you are ready now complete the following steps:

Click the chevron to right of Complete App Review.
Click Go to App Review.
A pop-up appears with a list of the Requirements for App Review:

Confirm that your app can be loaded and tested externally.
Provide clear use case details and describe step-by-step how a person uses your app.
Tell us how your case of Instagram permissions follows established usage guidelines. You will need to upload screen recordings that demonstrate how your app will use each permission.
Click Continue.
A pop-up appears that shows the required and recommended permissions that have been added by default for the Instagram product. If your app will not need a recommended permission, uncheck it.

Permissions
instagram_business_basic
instagram_business_content_publish
instagram_business_manage_comments
instagram_business_manage_insights
instagram_business_manage_messages
Features
Human Agent 
If you have requested the instagram_business_manage_messages permission, the Human Agent feature is added automatically.
Note: If you are adding Instagram to an existing app that has been approved for Advanced Access you may be automatically granted Advanced Access to Instagram business permissions.

You can add and remove permissions and features at any time during the development process.

Click Continue and you will be redirected to the App Review > Requests menu item in the left-side menu.
If you want to add more products or are not yet ready to submit for App Review, you can return to the app dashboard to submit at a later date.

Next Steps
API Integration Helper – Use the API Integration Helper in the App Dashboard to send a test message using the API.

When you need to request Advanced Access, visit the Instagram Platform App Review guide to learn how to submit your app for Meta App Review.

See Also
Learn more about Meta app development, review, permissions, and more with the following developer documents:

Business login for Instagram
Content Publishing API
Comment Moderation API
Instagram Messaging API
Logos and Trademarks
Permissions Reference
Webhooks from Meta
On This Page
Create a Meta App for Instagram Platform
1. Start the app creation process
Step 2: Connect a business
Step 3: Select your use case
Step 4: Select your app type
Step 5: Add app details
Step 6. Add the Instagram product to your app
Step 7. Generate access tokens
Step 9. Set up Instagram business login
Step 10. Complete App Review
Next Steps
See Also

Follow us on FacebookFollow us on InstagramFollow us on XFollow us on LinkedInFollow us on YouTube
Build with Meta
AI
Meta Horizon OS
Social technologies
News
Meta for Developers
Blog
Success stories
Support
Developer support
Bug tool
Platform status
Developer community forum
Report an incident
Terms and policies
Responsible platform initiatives
Platform terms
Developer policies
© 2025 Meta
About
Careers
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Terms

English (US)

English (US)
Was this document helpful?
YesNo
Remove